---
layout: page
title: SMART Changelog
includenav: smartnav.markdown
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<div id="toc"> </div>


<div class='simple_box'>
  FIXME: Please refer to the logs and commits of each SMART repositories on
  <a href='https://github.com/chb'>Github</a> as we update this!
</div>


# SMART Changelog

# API Updates since the $5K SMART Apps for Health Challenge

`JoshMandel` 15:11, 3 November 2011 (EDT) 

With feedback from the $5K SMART Apps for Health Challenge, we've been 
improving the SMART API to simplify the process of writing a SMART app. This 
includes some "breaking changes," meaning that existing apps will have to be 
updated (just a bit!). Here's a rundown of what's new

## Simpler app manifest

We simplified and flattened the SMART App manifest JSON structure. For more 
details, see our updated SMART manifest definition 

## App structure

SMART Apps no longer need to provide a bootstrap.html file. Instead, each app 
supplies a single index.html file. For more details, see our updated SMART 
Connect tutorial

## No more cookies for REST apps

When a SMART REST app launches, context is now provided via URL parameters 
rather than by cookie. For full details, see our updated SMART REST tutorial.

## Updated Data Model: Demographics

We're also introducing a more robust data model for demographics, including 
support for multiple telephone numbers and addresses via RDF vCard Ontology. 
For full details, see our Demographics Data Model.

## New Data Model: Vital Signs

We've added vital signs to the SMART data model, including height, weight, BMI, 
respiratory rate, heart rate, temperature, O2 saturation, and a detailed 
representation of blood pressures. For full details, see our Vital Signs Data 
Model.

## Updating your app

Here's a quick guide to making your app compatible with the changes described 
above.

### Update your manifest file

Update your app's manifest file, specifying your a name, description, author, 
id, version, mode scope, index, and icon.

### Remove bootstrap.html

With our new app structure, you don't need to supply this boilerplate file 
anymore.

### Wrap SMART JavaScript

Inside index.html, your app should include the JavaScript SMART API Client 
Library via:

{% highlight html %}
    <script 
src="http://sample-apps.smartplatforms.org/framework/smart/scripts/smart-api-cli
ent.js"></script>
{% endhighlight  %}

Once you've included this, you'll have access to an object called SMART. But 
before you use it, you'll need to make sure it's ready by calling 
SMART.ready(callback) with your code in the callback.

### If needed, update your SMART client

If using the SMART Python (or Java) Client, download the latest version and 
update your local copy.
 
### If needed, pull REST OAuth tokens from URL parameter

If you're updating a SMART REST app , you'll need to grab context and OAuth 
tokens from a URL parameter called oauth_header, instead of looking for a 
cookie. If your app makes additional page requests to its back end (such as 
AJAX calls, redirects, page switching), you may have to explicitly pass the 
oauth header (which can be obtained in JavaScript from the 
SMART.credentials.oauth_header object) to the back end.

### If needed, update your SPARQL queries

We're no longer using predicates from the "dublin core elements" namespace 
(http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/). Instead, all dublic core predicates now 
come from the "dublin core terms" namespace (http://purl.org/dc/terms/). So you 
should update any queries, e.g. from http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/date, you 
should update them to http://purl.org/dc/terms/date.

For full details about the new Demographics data model, see our Demographics 
Data Model. 

# Older Changes

Changed the URI for medications from to 
[http://rxnav.nlm.nih.gov/REST/rxcui/{rxcui}](http://rxnav.nlm.nih.gov/REST/rxcu
i/{rxcui}) . (Previously it had been 
[http://link.informatics.stonybrook.edu/rxnorm/RXCUI/{rxcui}](http://link.inform
atics.stonybrook.edu/rxnorm/RXCUI/{rxcui}). Also updated the sp:code property 
of CodedValue nodes, so this now points to a URI of type sp:Code (defining a 
coding system and identifier as needed -- please see payload examples).

`JoshMandel` 18:22, 2 March 2011 (EST) Changed the URI for medications from to: 
[http://rxnav.nlm.nih.gov/REST/rxcui/{rxcui}](http://rxnav.nlm.nih.gov/REST/rxcu
i/{rxcui}) . (Previously it had been 
[http://link.informatics.stonybrook.edu/rxnorm/RXCUI/{rxcui}](http://link.inform
atics.stonybrook.edu/rxnorm/RXCUI/{rxcui}). Also updated the sp:code property 
of CodedValue nodes, so this now points to a URI of type sp:Code (defining a 
coding system and identifier as needed -- please see payload examples).


`JoshMandel` 16:32, 21 February 2011 (EST) Added an AllergyException type, 
which is returned by GET /records/{rid}/allergies for a patient recorded as 
having no known allergies. Also added back very simple semantics for drug 
administration schedules, defining how much to take ("quantity") and how often 
("frequency") in terms of [The Unified Code for Units of 
Measure](http://www.unitsofmeasure.org/). This is enough to describe thing like 
"1 pill three times daily," or "5 mL twice a day."


`JoshMandel` 18:14, 16 February 2011 (EST) Pared down Medication data model, 
eliminating strength, strengthUnit, dose, doseUnit, frequency, and route for 
the SMArt App Developers Challenge. (Our sample data provides RxNorm concept 
identifiers and free-text instructions, and we don't want to define fields that 
we're not going to populate. Note that apps can derive information about 
strength via RxNorm, including the RxNav REST service) 
